# Person to Project Matching System Vision Statement

The Person to Project Matching System (PPMS) will be used to match projects looking for contributors with specific skillsets and qualifications with persons looking to contribute to a project.This is primarily a candidate matching database with a bit of a novel twist. PPMS will enable Project Owners to select users based **solely** on the skills and qualification that match the needs of their projects by eliminating(or reducing) conscious or unconsious bias based on any outward/physical characteristic.

This system is designed to be used by Project Owners looking for additional contributors and individuals(General Users) looking to contribute to a project. This system is an alternative to existing methods of finding skilled people, such as job banks and social networking communities such as LinkedIn. Project Owners will be able to post their project with specific skills/qualifications they need for their project. General Users will be able to browse project listings and express interest in projects they would like to contribute to.

What makes this application different from current alternatives is that it is designed to remove (or reduce) conscious/unconscious bias through the selection process. With the greatest respect, the late civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. states in his famous speech "I Have a Dream" that a person should be judged by the content of their character and not by an outward judgement or bias. This is the type of bias we hope to eliminate or severly limit when using our application. After Project Owners have posted a project they will have a list presented to them of users that have expressed interest in their project, but users are presented in such a way that skills and strength of match will be the deciding factor for the Project Owner to chose contributors for their project(which could be a personal project, a project to hire for, etc). The information provided to the Project Owner is explicitly skill and qualification related; the Project Owner cannot view the name, age, sex, race or even a photo of the candidate. Project Owners will simply review qualifications and this will help them to determine which candidates they feel would be the strongest asset for their project. Once a match has been made, contact information is shared with the Project Owner.

When a General User is looking for a suitable project or when a Project Owner is looking for a suitable candidate, they will each be presented with a "Tinder-Style" interface that has become well known to most users (swipe right to express interest, swipe left to express dis-insterest). Relevent details will be presented in a way that is short/terse/pithy/eye catching and the user will swipe right to express interest or swipe left to express disinterest. The novelty of this interface is well-known and familiar to many users due to famous/infamous applications such as Tinder and will put a fresh/fun spin on finding the right candidate or project. General Users will be able to view the history of project they have expressed interest in.

Every General User of the system will be required to fill out a survey that will be used to create the "Tinder-Style" profile that the project owner will see. This simple survey will gather relevent information from the user without the tedium of writing or reading paragraphs or copying and pasting a resume. Users will also recieve a notification when they have been selected(or not) or when projects they have expressed interest in have closed their listing.

Project Owners will be able to post a project with specific criteria for skills and qualifications they are looking for. They will also be able to edit or close their project listing. As matches become available, project owners will be presented with a list of candidates and how closely they match the skills required from their project post. They will be able to swipe right to select users or swipe left to move on to the next General User in their list. Project Owners will be able to review all candidates they have expressed interest in (swipped right). When the Project Owner has selected their candidates, only then will they presented with their contact information.

Since the system will be used primarily for matchmaking rather than project management, it does not need to support common project management features such as scheduling, reporting, and file sharing tools. It will, however, need to maintain a catalogue of all projects and the candidates and project owners who have been associated with every project in the past and present.

The use of a matchmaking system for skilled members of the public and project owners is an improvement over current systems as it provides an intuitive interface and the matchmaking format has proven to be successful for other domains. Because this system will be designed exclusively for matching people to projects, users will be able to more quickly find the people and projects that they want than using other social networking apps.

The project will be considered successful if both Project Owners and General Users prefer using this system over other networking tools, based on a survey given to people after demonstration of the system and if greater than 65% of matches presented are actually selected by Project Owners.